# CS340
<b>How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?</b>

Building this project in separate modules makes it simpler to maintain. When updates are needed, one doesn’t have to comb through thousands of lines of code and updating the smaller file ensures that every time it is called from another piece the updates are applied. It makes the project more readable because pieces that are grouped in ways that make sense for the project. In Project two, separate modules were used for the different layers. The CRUD layer was designed to make basic calls directly to the database. The module to create the dashboard widgets then made more refined calls to the CRUD module.  The generic CRUD layer in the middle and the dashboard module can be adapted to any MongoDB database by simply importing the database the developer wishes to use making each module reusable for future projects. 

<b>How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?</b>

This was the first time I utilized an external database. In previous courses I used data structures within the code to hold the needed data and manipulate it. When approaching a new technique, I take it one step at a time. I research what I wish to accomplish (instructional videos are my favorite learning tool), and then try it myself. While learning MongoDB, I’d learn how to run a query and then try it repeatedly with different filters until I became comfortable. Once I moved onto building the CRUD module, I tested each function as I built it and played around with different ways to make the database queries. Now that I have reusable code, I can base future databases off of what I’ve already learned and created. 

<b>What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?</b>

We rely on technology for just about everything these days and most of us store our important data on our computers or in the cloud. Computer scientists are needed to make sure that data is accessible, easy to filter, editable, and safe. They are also needed to create an easy-to-use interface for the end users who don’t know the various computer languages or how to make queries in the shell. Projects like the one created for grazioso Salvare make it easier for their employees to find the data they need without the need of an education in computer coding. The final project had pre-set filters to quickly sort the data and present results that meet their exact criteria. A computer scientist builds a application that allows the company to focus on doing their best work without needing to worry about how the computer does it's job. 
